README.md, before:

pyjks
=====

A pure python Java KeyStore file parser, including private/secret key decryption. Can read both JKS and JCEKS key stores.

The best way to utilize a certificate stored in a jks file up to this point has been
to use the java keytool command to transform to pkcs12, and then openssl to transform to pem.

This is better:
 -  no security concerns in passwords going into command line arguments, or unencrypted files being left around
 -  no dependency on a JVM

## Requirements:

 * Python 2.7+ or Python 3.4+
 * pyasn1 0.1.7+
 * pyasn1_modules 0.0.8+
 * javaobj-py3 0.1.4+
 * pycrypto, if you need to read JCEKS keystores

## Usage examples:

Reading a JKS or JCEKS keystore and dumping out its contents in the PEM format:
```python
from __future__ import print_function
import sys, base64, textwrap
import jks

def print_pem(der_bytes, type):
    print("-----BEGIN %s-----" % type)
    print("\r\n".join(textwrap.wrap(base64.b64encode(der_bytes).decode('ascii'), 64)))
    print("-----END %s-----" % type)

ks = jks.KeyStore.load("keystore.jks", "XXXXXXXX")

for alias, pk in ks.private_keys.items():
    print("Private key: %s" % pk.alias)
    if pk.algorithm_oid == jks.RSA_ENCRYPTION_OID:
        print_pem(pk.pkey, "RSA PRIVATE KEY")
    else:
        print_pem(pk.pkey_pkcs8, "PRIVATE KEY")

    for c in pk.cert_chain:
        print_pem(c[1], "CERTIFICATE")
    print()

for alias, c in ks.certs.items():
    print("Certificate: %s" % c.alias)
    print_pem(c.cert, "CERTIFICATE")
    print()

for alias, sk in ks.secret_keys.items():
    print("Secret key: %s" % sk.alias)
    print("  Algorithm: %s" % sk.algorithm)
    print("  Key size: %d bits" % sk.key_size)
    print("  Key: %s" % "".join("{:02x}".format(b) for b in bytearray(sk.key)))
	print()
```


Transforming an encrypted JKS/JCEKS file into an OpenSSL context):
```python
import OpenSSL
import jks

_ASN1 = OpenSSL.crypto.FILETYPE_ASN1

def jksfile2context(jks_file, passphrase, key_alias):
    keystore = jks.KeyStore.load(jks_file, passphrase)
    pk_entry = keystore.private_keys[key_alias]

    pkey = OpenSSL.crypto.load_privatekey(_ASN1, pk_entry.pkey)
    public_cert = OpenSSL.crypto.load_certificate(_ASN1, pk_entry.cert_chain[0][1])
    trusted_certs = [OpenSSL.crypto.load_certificate(_ASN1, cert.cert) for alias, cert in keystore.certs]

    ctx = OpenSSL.SSL.Context(OpenSSL.SSL.TLSv1_METHOD)
    ctx.use_privatekey(pkey)
    ctx.use_certificate(public_cert)
    ctx.check_privatekey() # want to know ASAP if there is a problem
    cert_store = ctx.get_cert_store()
    for cert in trusted_certs:
        cert_store.add_cert(cert)
    return ctx

```

Commit message:

jks/jks.py: Added decrypt() call to Secret/PrivateKeyEntry objects to allow key decryption after store parsing/loading; no longer require key passwords to be supplied up front
Key entries in a Java keystore are always encrypted; commonly the same password is used for the individual key entries as for the store itself, though this does not necessarily have to be the case. We therefore need to provide a way to decrypt individual key entries with user-supplied passwords other than the store password.

The key_passwords kwarg up until now allowed this, but still enforced that all entry passwords must be known and supplied to the load() call up front for it to complete successfully. Knowledge of entry passwords should not be needed to merely parse the structure and enumerate the entries in a keystore.

It can still be useful at load() time to automatically try to use the store password for decrypting key entries (because that's a common case), but failure to do so must not result in failure of the load() call. Instead, if decrypting with the store password fails, the entry is left as-is for the user to call decrypt() on manually afterwards, and parsing continues as normal.

Hence this change:
  - removes the requirement to supply all entry passwords up front for load() to succeed
  - makes load() attempt to decrypt individual entries with the store password to support the common case, but failure to do so does not cause load() to fail
  - provides the ability to decrypt individual entries post-load() call

README.md, after:

pyjks
=====

A pure python Java KeyStore file parser, including private/secret key decryption. Can read both JKS and JCEKS key stores.

The best way to utilize a certificate stored in a jks file up to this point has been
to use the java keytool command to transform to pkcs12, and then openssl to transform to pem.

This is better:
 -  no security concerns in passwords going into command line arguments, or unencrypted files being left around
 -  no dependency on a JVM

## Requirements:

 * Python 2.7+ or Python 3.4+
 * pyasn1 0.1.7+
 * pyasn1_modules 0.0.8+
 * javaobj-py3 0.1.4+
 * pycrypto, if you need to read JCEKS keystores

## Usage examples:

Reading a JKS or JCEKS keystore and dumping out its contents in the PEM format:
```python
from __future__ import print_function
import sys, base64, textwrap
import jks

def print_pem(der_bytes, type):
    print("-----BEGIN %s-----" % type)
    print("\r\n".join(textwrap.wrap(base64.b64encode(der_bytes).decode('ascii'), 64)))
    print("-----END %s-----" % type)

ks = jks.KeyStore.load("keystore.jks", "XXXXXXXX")
# if any of the keys in the store use a password that is not the same as the store password:
# ks.entries["key1"].decrypt("key_password")

for alias, pk in ks.private_keys.items():
    print("Private key: %s" % pk.alias)
    if pk.algorithm_oid == jks.RSA_ENCRYPTION_OID:
        print_pem(pk.pkey, "RSA PRIVATE KEY")
    else:
        print_pem(pk.pkey_pkcs8, "PRIVATE KEY")

    for c in pk.cert_chain:
        print_pem(c[1], "CERTIFICATE")
    print()

for alias, c in ks.certs.items():
    print("Certificate: %s" % c.alias)
    print_pem(c.cert, "CERTIFICATE")
    print()

for alias, sk in ks.secret_keys.items():
    print("Secret key: %s" % sk.alias)
    print("  Algorithm: %s" % sk.algorithm)
    print("  Key size: %d bits" % sk.key_size)
    print("  Key: %s" % "".join("{:02x}".format(b) for b in bytearray(sk.key)))
	print()
```


Transforming an encrypted JKS/JCEKS file into an OpenSSL context:
```python
import OpenSSL
import jks

_ASN1 = OpenSSL.crypto.FILETYPE_ASN1

def jksfile2context(jks_file, passphrase, key_alias, key_password=None):
    keystore = jks.KeyStore.load(jks_file, passphrase)
    pk_entry = keystore.private_keys[key_alias]
    # if the key could not be decrypted using the store password, decrypt with a custom password now
    if not pk_entry.is_decrypted():
        pk_entry.decrypt(key_password)

    pkey = OpenSSL.crypto.load_privatekey(_ASN1, pk_entry.pkey)
    public_cert = OpenSSL.crypto.load_certificate(_ASN1, pk_entry.cert_chain[0][1])
    trusted_certs = [OpenSSL.crypto.load_certificate(_ASN1, cert.cert) for alias, cert in keystore.certs]

    ctx = OpenSSL.SSL.Context(OpenSSL.SSL.TLSv1_METHOD)
    ctx.use_privatekey(pkey)
    ctx.use_certificate(public_cert)
    ctx.check_privatekey() # want to know ASAP if there is a problem
    cert_store = ctx.get_cert_store()
    for cert in trusted_certs:
        cert_store.add_cert(cert)
    return ctx

```
